<wiki:toc max_depth="5" />= Advanced configuration === Use local game descriptions ==In online scraping scenario game description will be added automatically (if available). If you want to use local game descriptions you will need description files (containing the description) and a parser configuration (tells RCB how to parse the description file format). The format of the parser configuration is explained in section [Preview#parserConfig.xml parserConfig.xml].You can download some (nearly) complete description files and a working parserConfig here: http://romcollectionbrowser.googlecode.com/files/gamedesc.zip. Actually it covers "NES", "SNES", "SEGA 32", "SEGA CD", "SEGA Genesis", "SEGA Game Gear", "SEGA Master System", "SEGA SG-1000" and "Gameboy". These descriptions all contain crc values, so you should not need to rename your roms to match the descriptions.User [http://forum.xbmc.org/showpost.php?p=612640&postcount=580 spyvsspy has compiled] some more game descriptions (all included with working parserConfig and all using crc values): [http://jumbofiles.com/4bo7ue9f000b Mame], [http://jumbofiles.com/s6i1kve2n18t C64], [http://jumbofiles.com/kmcvpukjayn2 Amiga small], [http://jumbofiles.com/1ija5cepffeh Amiga big (may be problematic to parse because of its size)],[http://jumbofiles.com/ro4bfpiajjp5 ColecoVision]Local game description and parsers are also added as scrapers.== Mixing online and offline scrapers ==todo== Enable fullscreen browser ==RCB creates a video playlist with every game video in your current filter selection and starts playback in fullscreen (if you hit the button "Play Video Fullscreen"). You can zap through the videos of this playlist and use the builtin Info Overlay with title, thumbnail and duration. RCB uses standard XBMC playlist and fullscreen player so there are not more options to interact with the playback from RCB.If you have created your config.xml with the wizard, it will be enough to use one of the "...Video" imagePlacing-Options.To add fullscreen support manually you have to add this line to your ImagePlacing-configuration:{{{<fileTypeForMainViewFullscreenVideo>gameplay</fileTypeForMainViewFullscreenVideo>}}}Now you should see a button "Play Video Fullscreen" below the screenshots in Info and Info2 view.=== Enable zapping in fullscreen browser ===You may have to make some changes to your keymap.xml to get the zapping feature. These changes make sure that you have access to "SkipNext" and "SkipPrevious" in FullscreenVideo and FullscreenInfo:Windows/Linux keyboard.xml:{{{<FullscreenVideo>	<keyboard>	 ...	  <!--<period>StepForward</period>	  <comma>StepBack</comma>-->	  <period>SkipNext</period>	  <comma>SkipPrevious</comma>	  ...	</keyboard></FullscreenVideo><FullscreenInfo>    <keyboard>      ...      <!--<period>StepForward</period>-->      ...    </keyboard></FullscreenInfo>}}}Xbox keymap.xml{{{<FullscreenVideo>    ...    <gamepad>      ...      <dpadup>SkipNext</dpadup>      <dpaddown>SkipPrevious</dpaddown>	  ...    </gamepad></FullscreenVideo>}}}== Customize image placing ==RCB does not rely on a defined set of media files. The user may have small collections with only one image per game or others may have complete sets with 6 or more different image types and maybe video files. Some users want to see title screenshots as background, others prefer boxart images. With image placing you have the option to control where RCB will show which type of artwork.Detailed configuration of every available image control can be done with the `ImagePlacing` elements in config.xml. If you have built your config.xml with the wizard, RCB will have created some default options for you. You can choose which option to use with the `<imagePlacing>` element in `RomCollection`. Just reference the name that is used in the `ImagePlacing/fileTypeFor` element.In section [Preview#dynamic_image_placing dynamic image placing] is explained how to configure the `ImagePlacing` elements.