#sidebar SideBar
= Basic Configuration =
Configuration is done via xml files. There is one main configuration file "config.xml" that must be placed in your userdata folder ([http://wiki.xbmc.org/index.php?title=Special_protocol#Platform_Specific_Default_Mappings Look here for special://home]). Inside your userdata folder you will find RCBs config files in  "script_data" (Camelot) or "addon_data" (Dharma) in the sub folder "script.games.rom.collection.browser".

If the config file is not found at startup, RCB will start a creation wizard that helps you to create a simple config.xml with most common settings. See next section for more information).


Global settings can be changed in the Addons settings (See [AddonSettings Addon settings] for more information).

There are three stages where RCB reads its settings: [ImportGamesAndMedia Importing Games], [BrowsingAndDisplayingGames Browsing and Displaying Games] and [LaunchingGames Launching Games]. You only need to "Import Games" if you make changes to settings that address the "Importing Games" stage.

== Create a config file with startup wizard ==
  * First you have to choose a scenario: Online scraping or local data. In online scraping scenario RCB will scrape different web sites for game infos and artwork (boxfront, boxback, cartridge, screenshot and fanart). Local data scenario requires local available game descriptions, artwork or videos.
  * Repeat the following steps for every system you want to configure (you can also create just one system with the wizard and do the rest per copy/paste in the config file itself)
  * Choose a system. If you don't find your system in the list, select "Other" and type the name of your system. Note: Some scrapers won't work properly without a known system.
  * Select the path to the emulator for this system.
  * Enter the parameters for the emulator. Use "%ROM%" as placeholder if you need to pass the rom filename to the emulator.
  * Select the path to your rom files.
  * Enter one or more file masks (comma-separated). RCB will search the rom path and all sub folders for files that match the given filemask.
  * Online scraping scenario:
    * Select the path where you want to store your artwork (or where your artwork is already stored). Note: RCB scrapes and downloads 5 different artwork types. It needs to store all these files in different folders, so it tries to create sub folders below the given path: boxfront, boxback, cartridge, screenshot and fanart. If the user that runs xbmc does not have permission to create folders in this directory, please create these folders manually.
  * Local data scenario: 
    * Choose an artwork type.
    * Select the path to the artwork of this type.
    * Choose the type of description files. There may be large files with descriptions for all of your games or single description files for every game.
    * Select the path to your description files.
    * Select the path to the parse instruction for the given description file.
	
== Improving scrape results ==
todo

== Import local nfo files ==
todo

== Use RCB to launch standalone games ==
todo

== Add new Rom Collections (without wizard) ==
todo