#sidebar SideBar
<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

= Analyzing and reporting problems =
== Where do I find the log file ==
XBMC writes a file "xbmc.log" that contains a lot of information what happens during runtime in both: XBMC and RCB. See the [http://wiki.xbmc.org/index.php?title=Log_file XBMC wiki] for more information and the location where you find the file on your system.

== How to report problems ==
If you encounter any problems and you want to report it in the forum thread or on the issues page, PLEASE ALWAYS add a log file. Unless you really know that you can describe the whole problem without a log file you should always attach one. To attach a log file please do the following things:
  * Restart XBMC (this will clean the log file and makes it more easy to read).
  * Leave XBMC and RCB in normal log mode. In 99% of the time this will be enough and the debug mode will produce too much information that makes the log unreadable.
  * Unless you really know which part of the log file is important for me, please always add the complete log file.
  * DON'T paste the file (or large parts of it) to the forums or the issues page. Use a pastebin service like [http://pastebin.com/] to paste your log file there and just post the link in the forum.
  * Please don't use one of these file upload services that let me enter captchas and makes me wait 60 seconds because I don't have a premium account (I don't have a premium account for any of these services, I ALWAYS have to wait).

= Known issues =
== The program doesn't load on "No module named pysqlite2" ==
Some distributions don't ship with prebuild pysqlite libraries. You have to get them on your own and copy them to your xbmc lib folder (e.g. /usr/local/lib/xbmc/addons/script.module.pysqlite/lib/pysqlite2). I made an extra package with these libraries if you don't want to build them yourself: http://romcollectionbrowser.googlecode.com/files/platform_libraries.zip.

== Error launching .7z file ==
When launching .7z files RCB just shows a message box with this error message: "Error launching .7z file. Please check XBMC.log for details". This error should only occure if you have installed RCB via the repo browser. Launching .7z files requires certain libraries that are not part of XBMCs python environment. You can download RCBs latest version from the projects home page, this already includes all required libraries.

== XBMC freezes when trying to start RCB ==
This may happen if you accidently try to launch RCB twice. Unfortunately I did not find a way to code around this issue until now. So if you run into this issue make sure that you wait 1-2 seconds to see if RCB will start before you try it a second time.

== I only see my DVD drive in the config wizard ==
Usually this happens if there is still a disc in the drive. Remove all discs and unmount any virtual drives and try again.

On Windows and XBMC Dharma it may happen that you have to add your drives via XBMC File manager. It depends on the skin where to find the File manager. In Confluence you will find it as a sub menu of System on the Home screen (move to the right when System is highlighted).

== RCB can't access my SMB shares ==
There seems to be a problem to access SMB shares the standard way ("smb://server/location/..."). You can get around this issue by manually editing the file config.xml. Search for the smb entry and change it to the following syntax: "\\server\location\...".

== In solo mode I get this error: CApplication:: create() failed - Check log file and that it is writeable ==
When you want to use RCB in solo mode on Windows you may receive the above error when trying to restart XBMC. I am still not sure what causes this error but on some systems you could get rid of this error when you edit the file applaunch.bat in RCBs install dir.

Change the line:
{{{
"C:\Program Files\XBMC\XBMC.exe"
}}}
to:
{{{
explorer "C:\Program Files\XBMC\XBMC.exe"
}}}
Note: this workaround does not work on all systems. If you don't belong to the lucky ones you have to wait until I (or somebody else) find another solution.