<wiki:toc max_depth="5" />= Installation =Note: RCBs configuration file "config.xml" will be stored in your XBMC userdata folder. You will find this folder in your user environment ([http://wiki.xbmc.org/index.php?title=Special_protocol#Platform_Specific_Default_Mappings Look here for special://home]). If you installed XBMC in portable mode you will find it in the XBMC installation directory. RCBs configuration is stored in "script_data/script.games.rom.collection.browser" (Camelot) or "addon_data/script.games.rom.collection.browser" (Dharma).== Camelot ==  * Download [http://romcollectionbrowser.googlecode.com/files/script.games.rom.collection.browser-0.7.7.zip script.games.rom.collection.browser-0.7.7.zip]  * Unzip it to your XBMC scripts folder== Dharma ===== via Repo Browser ===  * Go to XBMCs Addon Browser: System -> Add-ons -> Get Add-ons -> XBMC.org Add-ons -> Program Add-ons --> Rom Collection Browser  * Choose Install=== via zip file ===  * Download [http://romcollectionbrowser.googlecode.com/files/script.games.rom.collection.browser-0.7.7.zip script.games.rom.collection.browser-0.7.7.zip]  * Go to XBMCs Addon Browser: System -> Add-ons -> Install from zip file=== Known issues ======= The program doesn't load on “No module named pysqlite2” ====Some distributions don't ship with prebuild pysqlite libraries. You have to get them on your own and copy them to your xbmc lib folder (e.g. /usr/lib/xbmc/addons/script.module.pysqlite). I made an extra package with these libraries if you don't want to build them yourself: http://romcollectionbrowser.googlecode.com/files/platform_libraries.zip.= First use =  * Start XBMC and launch RCB  * If there is no file config.xml in your userdata folder, RCB will start a simple creation wizard. This will help you to create a config file with most common settings.    * See section [Create_a_config_file_with_startup_wizard Create a config file with startup wizard] for more information.  * In most scenarios the wizard will fit all your needs. More advanced or special settings still must be done in the config file itself. See [AdvancedConfiguration Advanced configuration] for more information.  == XBMC Live users ==If you use XBMC Live without an additional window manager you can use RCB only in non-solo mode. See section [Use_Emulator_solo Use Emulator solo] for details.== Xbox users ==Launching games on Xbox differs from launching games on a PC. You can launch .xbe-files directly from RCB if you set "%ROM%" as emulatorCmd and leave emulatorParams empty. If you want to launch an emulator and pass the rom file as an argument to the emu you have to use .cut-files. RCB can create this .cut-files on-the-fly for you. With using .cut-files you also have to set emulatorCmd to "%ROM%".See [ConfigXmlReference#Launching_games Launching games] for details.= Addon settings =You can access RCBs global settings via the context menu in addons / scripts list in XBMC (press C on the keyboard).== Log Level ==Set RCBs log level. Allowed values: ERROR, WARNING, INFO or DEBUG== Use Emulator solo ==If set to "True" RCB will try to kill XBMC before starting the emulator. After exiting the emulator you will return to XBMC. If "False" the emulator will be launched while XBMC is running in the background.This mechanism invokes a batch (Windows) or bash (Linux) file. Linux only: make sure the file "RCB install dir/applaunch.sh" is executable. If you have problems with launching the emulator or returning to XBMC please check the commands in the file "applaunch.bat" (Windows) or "applaunch.sh" (Linux). You must be able to execute the command that is used to launch XBMC.When restarting XBMC RCB will try to create a file "autoexec.py" in XBMCs main script directory (Camelot) or in your userdata folder (Dharma). This will be used by XBMC to launch RCB automatically after restarting. If you already use an "autoexec.py" RCB will try to backup your original file and restores it after restarting. Make sure that the user that runs XBMC has write access to XBMCs main script directory (Camelot only).== Escape Emulator Cmd ==This will escape the rom file names passed to the emulatorCmd. Try to change this if you are running into problems with launching games.== Caching Option ==Controls RCBs caching behaviour. Allowed values: CACHEALL, CACHEITEM, CACHEITEMANDNEXT.CACHEALL: loads and caches all media files at startup. Best for large rom collections on fast PCs with enough RAM. Scrolling down the game list may be a bit slower with this setting because XBMC renders all images that it passes by.CACHEITEM: loads only the media files shown in the game list when the game list is built. All extra info will be loaded when a game is selected.Best for slow PCs with little RAM or xbox. Fast list scrolling is possible because XBMC does not render all images. Game list flickers while browsing because every game info has to be loaded when a game is selected.CACHEITEMANDNEXT: same as CACHEITEM. This will also load the media files and description for the item before and after the selected one. This will reduce flickering while browsing the game list (if not browsing too fast).== Create local nfo file while scraping ==Set this option to "True" if you want RCB to create nfo files while scraping. These nfo files contain all game meta information like name, genre, description, release year, etc. They will be saved next to the scanned rom files with a name romfile.nfo. Make sure that the user who runs xbmc has permission to create files in your rom directory.These nfo files can be edited and reimported into RCBs database. This can be used to add or edit game properties or to save time when rebuilding your database.== Don't import games without description ==Set this to "True" if you want to skip all games that RCB can't find any description for. RCB will create a file "missingDesc.txt" while scraping. This file contains a list of all skipped games.== Don't import games without artwork ==Set this to "True" if you want to skip all games that RCB can't find any artwork for. RCB will create a file "missingArtwork.txt" while scraping. This file contains a list of all missing artwork types.== Always rescan imported games ==Before scraping game information, RCB checks if the current rom file is already imported to the database. RCB will skip scraping these games unless you set this option to "True".== Show Filter All Consoles ==Actually there are five filter lists to browse your rom files. Every list has an entry "All" per default. If you have a large rom collection and you try to load all your roms unfiltered this can take some time. You can set this property to "False" to remove the entry "All" from the Console filter list.== Show Filter All Genres ==You can set this property to "False" to remove the entry "All" from the Genre filter list.== Show Filter All Years ==You can set this property to "False" to remove the entry "All" from the Year filter list.== Show Filter All Publishers ==You can set this property to "False" to remove the entry "All" from the Publishers filter list.== Show Filter All Chars ==You can set this property to "False" to remove the entry "All" from the A-Z filter list.== Prevent Unfiltered Search ==This will prevent RCB from showing ALL your roms without any filter criteria. If you play around with yor filter criterias it may happen that you start an unfiltered search letting RCB search for all your roms. With a large rom collection on a slow machine this will take a lot of time. You should set this option to "True" in this case.== Save Viewstate On Exit ==If set to "True" RCB will save the current view state (selected filter criteria and focused control) and restores it when you launch it the next time. This option will be used when exiting RCB.== Save Viewstate On Launch Emu ==If set to "True" RCB will save the current view state (selected filter criteria and focused control) and restores it when you launch it the next time. This option will be used when launching an emulator in "solo" mode.= Setup test scenario =To show you how this script will work and how data should (could) be organized I also provide a zip file with testdata. This includes covers, game screenshots, game description files and sample configuration files for 7 Amiga and 8 SNES games. I also added 3 gameplay videos to show you how videos will look like in RCB. It only includes placeholder files for the roms (empty text files). This test scenario is not really meant to play the games, it should just show you how to configure this script.  # Install RCB like described in chapter Installation  # Download "Testdata 0.6.x.zip" (http://romcollectionbrowser.googlecode.com/files/Testdata%200.6.x.zip)  # Unzip it somewhere  # Go to the new Testdata folder  # Edit "config_Windows.xml" or "config_Linux.xml": Replace every occurance of "PathToTestData" with the absolute path to your Testdata folder (e.g. "/home/user/Testdata 0.6.x" or "D:\Downloads\RCB\Testdata 0.6.x")  # Rename "config_Windows.xml" or "config_Linux.xml" to "config.xml"  # Copy "config.xml" to your userdata folder ("script_data/script.games.rom.collection.browser" (Camelot) or "addon_data/script.games.rom.collection.browser" (Dharma))  # Start xbmc and launch RCB  # RCB will notice that there is no database and asks you if you would like to import settings. Click "Yes".  # If "Import Settings" was successful RCB will offer you to import games now. Click "Yes" to continue.Now you should be able to browse the games by filter criteria and watch all information and artwork. If you want to launch roms with the test scenario you have to take these additional steps:  # Go to your Testdata folder and replace the placeholder rom files with real ones (e.g. Testdata 0.6.x/Collection V1/roms/).  # Edit the value of property "emulatorCmd". This command will be invoked when you launch a rom file. %ROM% will be replaced with the name of the rom file to be launched. If you have multiple rom files for one game %I% will be replaced with the (zero-based) index of the current file.  = Basic Usage === Navigation ==Navigation should be self explanating. Move around with the arrow keys and see what happens. There are some filter controls at the top and some buttons at the bottom of the page that are hidden in the normal view. They will show up if they receive focus and hide if they lose it.If the filter controls own the focus you can jump to the game list with "Enter" (or SELECT-Button on a remote).In game list you can launch games with "Enter" or go to the details page with "I" (or INFO-Button on a remote).To exit the script or to leave the details page just press "Esc" (or BACK-Button on a remote).== Import Games ==RCB will scan your rom folders and data folders and imports all game relevant data. To get this job done you have to tell it where to search and what to search for. Global settings (for all rom collections) can be changed via the Addons settings. Rom collection specific settings are stored in RCBs configuration file config.xml.Every imported file will be associated with a game and a file type (boxfront, screenshot, fanart, gameplay video, ...). Only the path to the file is imported, not the file itself. If you delete or move the file after importing, RCB won't find it anymore.RCB will also try to parse description files or scrapes web sites for your games during import. RCB ships with a set of preconfigured online scrapers (e.g. thevideogamedb.com, thegamesdb.net, giantbomb.com or mobygames.com). These scrapers can be invoked all together or combined with local description files. You can define the used scrapers and the ordering of scrapers in config.xml.If you encounter any errors or miss some game infos after import, check XBMCs logfile. Search for any occurance of "RCB_ERROR" or "RCB_WARNING" to see what is missing. RCB will also create two text files ("missingDesc.txt" and "missingArtwork.txt") with information about missing data. You will find these files in RCBs userdata directory.If you add new data to one of your rom collections you can use "Import Games" as often as you like. Every run will import new data and updates the data that is already stored in database.Depending on your rom collections size and the number of used scrapers importing games can take some time.= Basic Configuration =Configuration is done via xml files. There is one main configuration file "config.xml" that must be placed in your userdata folder ("script_data/script.games.rom.collection.browser" (Camelot) or "addon_data/script.games.rom.collection.browser" (Dharma)). If this file is not found at startup, RCB will start a creation wizard that helps you to create a simple config.xml with most common settings. See next section for more information).Global settings can be changed in the Addons settings (See [Addon_settings Addon settings] for more information).There are three stages where RCB reads its settings: [ConfigXmlReference#Import_games_and_media Importing Games], [ConfigXmlReference#Browsing_and_displaying_games Browsing and Displaying Games] and [ConfigXmlReference#Launching_games Launching Games]. You only need to "Import Games" if you make changes to settings that address the "Importing Games" stage.== Create a config file with startup wizard ==  * First you have to choose a scenario: Online scraping or local data. In online scraping scenario RCB will scrape different web sites for game infos and artwork (boxfront, boxback, cartridge, screenshot and fanart). Local data scenario requires local available game descriptions, artwork or videos.  * Repeat the following steps for every system you want to configure (you can also create just one system with the wizard and do the rest per copy/paste in the config file itself)  * Choose a system. If you don't find your system in the list, select "Other" and type the name of your system. Note: Some scrapers won't work properly without a known system.  * Select the path to the emulator for this system.  * Enter the parameters for the emulator. Use "%ROM%" as placeholder if you need to pass the rom filename to the emulator.  * Select the path to your rom files.  * Enter one or more file masks (comma-separated). RCB will search the rom path and all sub folders for files that match the given filemask.  * Online scraping scenario:    * Select the path where you want to store your artwork (or where your artwork is already stored). Note: RCB scrapes and downloads 5 different artwork types. It needs to store all these files in different folders, so it tries to create sub folders below the given path: boxfront, boxback, cartridge, screenshot and fanart. If the user that runs xbmc does not have permission to create folders in this directory, please create these folders manually.  * Local data scenario:     * Choose an artwork type.    * Select the path to the artwork of this type.    * Choose the type of description files. There may be large files with descriptions for all of your games or single description files for every game.    * Select the path to your description files.    * Select the path to the parse instruction for the given description file.	== Improving scrape results ==todo== Import local nfo files ==todo== Use RCB to launch standalone games ==todo== Add new Rom Collections (without wizard) ==todo= Update an older installation === without preserving configuration changes ==If you just played around with the test scenario and did not make any relevant changes to "config.xml" or the parser configuration you can just delete the complete RCB folder and follow the steps in the chapter "Installation" or "Setup test scenario".== preserving configuration changes ==Since V0.4 it should be possible to keep your old database. Changes to data structure will be done automatically. Please backup your database before trying this. I tested a lot but who knows...=== 0.6.1 - 0.7.3 -> 0.7.4 ===If you want to keep your old database and your old config.xml you have to do the following steps:    * Make sure your old database `MyGames.db` is still available in your RCB userdata folder. RCB needs your old database to perform the update.  * Launch RCB: This will automatically update your database and config.xml to the new structure. RCB will make backups of your old files.  * After this first launch you should already be able to browse all your games  * Before you can launch roms you have to make one change to your config.xml manually: The property "emulatorCmd" has been split up in two properties: "emulatorCmd" and "emulatorParams". Move the params from "emulatorCmd" to "emulatorParams" and you should be done with the update.