#sidebar SideBar

= Launching games =
== All systems ==
=== Rom Collection ===
==== emulatorCmd ====
The command that you specify as emulatorCmd will be invoked when you select a game. With the startup wizard you can directly navigate to the executable.

If you want to launch standalone games just use "%ROM%" as emulator Cmd.

==== emulatorParams ====
The params that are passed to the emulator. You can use the following placeholders in your commands:

%ROM% will be replaced with the current file name

%I% will be replaced with the zero-based index of the current rom file

If the emulator supports multiple rom files (like uae) you can use {} for repeating parameters. In a command like "uae {-%I% "%ROM%"}" the part in the {} brackets will be repeated for any disk file of the game. For example if you have an amiga game (`MyGame`) that consists of 2 disk files the uae command at runtime will be: 
{{{
uae -0 "MyGame_Disk1.adf" -1 "MyGame_Disk2.adf".
}}}

== Xbox only ==
=== Rom Collection ===
==== xboxCreateShortcut ====
Creates a "temp.cut" file with the path to the emulator or the xbox game to be launched. This cut file will be launched instead of directly launching the emulator or xbox game.

default value: False

==== xboxCreateShortcutAddRomfile ====
Adds the rom filename as additional parameter to the cut file (not all emulators support this).

default value: False

==== xboxCreateShortcutUseShortGamename ====
This will use a short game name instead of complete file name (required for some exotic emulators).

default value: False