#sidebar SideBarIf you want to browse large Rom Collections on small machines (like Revo or Xbox) you may experience performance issues. It may take some time to load the list after changing filter settings, browsing the list may be slow. There are some options to increase performance or to reduce the result sets to display.= Caching options =Controls RCBs caching behaviour. Allowed values: CACHEALL, CACHEITEM, CACHEITEMANDNEXT. Caching option on small machines should be CACHEITEMANDNEXT or CACHEITEM. This will only add the current items to the memory. CACHEALL is a no-go on machines with little RAM as it will lead to out of memory errors.Caching options are controlled via [AddonSettings Addon Settings]== CACHEALL ==Loads and caches all media files at startup. Best for large rom collections on fast PCs with enough RAM. Scrolling down the game list may be a bit slower with this setting because XBMC renders all images that it passes by.== CACHEITEM ==Loads only the media files shown in the game list when the game list is built. All extra info will be loaded when a game is selected.Best for slow PCs with little RAM or xbox. Fast list scrolling is possible because XBMC does not render all images. Game list flickers while browsing because every game info has to be loaded when a game is selected.== CACHEITEMANDNEXT ==Same as CACHEITEM. This will also load the media files and description for the item before and after the selected one. This will reduce flickering while browsing the game list (if not browsing too fast).= Reduce result set =You could just use the default filter settings to reduce the number of results that are displayed. Most times I have a certain console in my filters and on Xbox additionally the first character. This usually reduces the results below 100 games. RCB will save this filter settings and starts with the same settings next time you launch it. Additionally you should check the option "Prevent unfiltered search" in Addon settings. As the name says this prevents accidently starting a search for all of your games at once.You could also remove the "All" entry from your filters. This is the hard way to prevent unfiltered searches. Just uncheck the "Show Filter All ..."-options in Addon settings.See [AddonSettings#Browse_Games Addon Settings] for more information on these settings.= Reduce number of displayed images =RCB allows you to select the types of images that are displayed in different image controls in the UI. This mechanism is called Image Placing. To reduce the number of images that are displayed while browsing your games you can adjust the `ImagePlacing` options in config.xml.See [BrowsingAndDisplayingGames#dynamic_image_placing this section in the wiki] for more information about `ImagePlacing`.An example for a lighweight `ImagePlacing` could look like this (no background image, only 1 screenshot):{{{<ImagePlacing>    <fileTypeFor name="lightweight">      <fileTypeForGameList>boxfront</fileTypeForGameList>      <fileTypeForGameList>screenshot</fileTypeForGameList>      <fileTypeForGameListSelected>boxfront</fileTypeForGameListSelected>      <fileTypeForGameListSelected>screenshot</fileTypeForGameListSelected>           <fileTypeForMainViewGameInfoBig>screenshot</fileTypeForMainViewGameInfoBig>      <fileTypeForMainViewGameInfoBig>boxfront</fileTypeForMainViewGameInfoBig>      <fileTypeForMainViewVideoFullscreen>gameplay</fileTypeForMainViewVideoFullscreen>      <fileTypeForGameInfoViewBackground>fanart</fileTypeForGameInfoViewBackground>      <fileTypeForGameInfoViewBackground>screenshot</fileTypeForGameInfoViewBackground>      <fileTypeForGameInfoViewGamelist>boxfront</fileTypeForGameInfoViewGamelist>      <fileTypeForGameInfoView1>boxfront</fileTypeForGameInfoView1>      <fileTypeForGameInfoView2>boxback</fileTypeForGameInfoView2>      <fileTypeForGameInfoView3>screenshot</fileTypeForGameInfoView3>      <fileTypeForGameInfoView4>cartridge</fileTypeForGameInfoView4>    </fileTypeFor></ImagePlacing>}}}Make sure that the artwork types are matching with your current configuration.This option must also be selected in your `RomCollection` entries:{{{<RomCollections>    <RomCollection id="1" name="Amiga">      ...      <imagePlacing>lightweight</imagePlacing>      ...    </RomCollection></RomCollections>}}}