#sidebar SideBar
= Skinning RCB =
Most things in RCBs skin files should be self explanating to a skinner. The current skin files are made for a PAL resolution with Confluence in mind. If you have improvements to my Confluence skin or want to migrate RCB to other skins please feel free to contribute.

The following skin xml files are use in RCB:
 
<b>script-Rom_Collection_Browser-main.xml</b>
RCBs main window

<b>script-RCB-gameinfo.xml</b>
Game info view

<b>script-RCB-contextmenu.xml</b>
Context menu

<b>script-RCB-importoptions.xml</b>
Import options dialog

<b>script-RCB-editRCbasic.xml</b>
Edit Rom Collection dialog

== Accessing RCBs images and videos ==
One thing that could be special in this script is the "dynamic image placing". RCB does not rely on a defined set of media files. The user may have small collections with only one image per game or others may have complete sets with 6 or more images and maybe video files per game. I want the user to decide where to show which type of image. The skinner should decide how it is presented. I am afraid this approach is not really XBMCish...

Thats why you find several code lines like this in the skin xml:
{{{
<texture>$INFO[ListItem.Property(mainviewbackground)]</texture>
}}}

The user decides per config what image he wants to use as background image. The skin can display this file with the above code.

Here is a list of all available media controls:

images in main view
{{{
mainviewbackground
gamelist
gamelistselected
mainviewgameinfobig
mainviewgameinfoupperleft
mainviewgameinfoupperright
mainviewgameinfolowerleft
mainviewgameinfolowerright
mainviewgameinfoupper
mainviewgameinfolower
mainviewgameinfoleft
mainviewgameinforight
mainview1
mainview2
mainview3
}}}

videos in main view
{{{
mainviewvideowindowbig
mainviewvideowindowsmall
}}}

Here you can see how this is done in the current skin: [BrowsingAndDisplayingGames#dynamic_image_placing dynamic image placing] (see the screenshots at the end of the page).

== Accessing RCBs text properties ==
It should also be possible to access all text properties in the skin.

The title of a game is available as ListItem.Label:
{{{
<label>$INFO[ListItem.Label]</label>
}}}

All other properties can be accessed like this:
{{{
<label>$INFO[ListItem.Property(console)]</label>
}}}

All available tags:
{{{
romcollection
console
year
plot
publisher
developer
reviewer
genre
maxplayers
rating
votes
url
region
media
perspective
controllertype
isfavorite
playcount
originaltitle
alternatetitle
translatedby
version
}}}

== Special control ids ==
Some control ids are referenced inside the python code so you should not change them unless you know what you are doing.

=== Game lists ===
Lists always have ids 50-59 in XBMC. These lists are available as "view" in the UI. In RCB you also have to take care which views support video playback and one id is reserved for the game info dialog.

50-54:	views that support video

55-58:	views that don't support video

59:		game info dialog


=== Main Window ===
Some controls that are available in all views should not be changed also.

==== Filter controls ====
Console:	500

Genre:		600

Year:		700

Publisher:	800

A-Z:		900


==== Scrollbars ====
For some reason I had trouble with handling scrollbars because they are sometimes present and sometimes not (depending on the length of text). If you use scrollbars in your view make sure they have ids 2200 or 2201. If you need more scrollbars just have a look at the beginning of the file gui.py. There is a list with scrollbar ids (CONROL_SCROLLBARS = (2200, 2201,)). You can add your id here and tell me that I should add it to the next RCB version.

==== Buttons ====

Import Games:			3100

Change View:			2

Play Video Fullscreen:	2900, 2901

If you add more than two views hat support fullscreen video you have to add the new ids to the python code: Go to gui.py and look for this line: CONTROL_BUTTON_VIDEOFULLSCREEN = (2900, 2901,)

==== Labels ====
Message label:	4000


=== Context Menu ===

==== Buttons ====

Close Context Menu:		5101

Import Games:			5110

Add Rom Collection:		5111

Edit Rom Collection:	5112

Delete Game:			5113


=== Import options dialog ===

==== Buttons ====

Close Dialog:			5101

Ok:						5300

Cancel:					5310

Rom Collection Up:		5211

Rom Collection Down:	5212

==== Lists ====

Rom Collections:		5210

Scraping mode:			5220

Fuzzy Factor:			5260

Scraper 1:				5270

Scraper 2:				5280

Scraper 3:				5290


=== Edit Rom Collection dialog ===

==== Buttons ====

Close Dialog:			5101

Save:					6000

Cancel:					6010

Emu Cmd:				5220

Emu Params:				5230

Rom Path:				5240

File Mask:				5250

Media Path:				5270

Media File Mask:		5280

Ignore on scan:			5330

Rom Collection Up:		5211

Rom Collection Down:	5212

Media Type Up:			5261

Media Type Down:		5262


==== Lists ====

Rom Collections:		5210

Media Types:			5260

Scraper 1:				5290

Scraper 2:				5300

Scraper 3:				5310

Image Placing:			5320